#summary Choice of Database and considerations for ICAT use.
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

This contains some guidance on setting up a database for ICAT and which to choose.

The database system must be supported by eclipselink and must support transactions and enforce foreign key constraints. This includes most database systems you are likely to want as explained at [http://wiki.eclipse.org/EclipseLink/FAQ/JPA#What_databases_are_supported.3F the eclipselink web site]
                    
It has been tested with: MySQL, Oracle and Derby. 

You will need a schema/database with permissions for data definition operations such as "CREATE TABLE ..." 

If you are using [Glassfish] You must place a copy of the "JDBC Connector" for your database in the lib directory below the domain where you will install ICAT. You should get the connector from the database supplier. In the case of Oracle and MySQL these are both included in the Glassfish distribution but must be copied to the lib directory. For Derby no action is required - the connector is pre-installed.

== MySQL ==
MySQL must be installed with InnoDB support and you must ensure that while installing ICAT the default engine is InnoDB. You can see the default engine with "show engines;". To fix an existing system you can use the ALTER TABLE command as explained in: http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.1/en/storage-engine-setting.html.

== Oracle ==
Applications must be aware that Oracle does not treat empty strings correctly but stores them as NULL values. If you want your code to work on Oracle and other databases you must code round this issue.

== Derby ==
Derby is not recommended for production use. There is much less experience of it.

              

                