#summary Terms of reference for the ICAT Executive Board

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Draft terms for the Icat Executive Board =

v 0.3 - Alistair Mills - Reviewed to include Brian's ideas

The ownership of ICAT rests with the Director of eScience of STFC.

== Purpose ==

The Board exists for the following reasons:
 * to advise the owner of ICAT;
 * to provide senior management oversight for the work of the ICAT collaboration partners;
 * to provide strategic guidance on the development and deployment of ICAT.

== Membership ==

The Board has the following members:
 * a representative of ISIS;
 * a representative of DLS;
 * a representative of CLF;
 * a representative of SNS;
 * a representative of eScience at STFC;
 * a representative of ILL;
 * a representative of ESRF;
 * a representative of ELETTRA;
 * anyone appointed by the Board.

== Executive members of the Board ==

The Board has the following resources:
 * a Chairperson elected from its members;
 * a Secretary provided by eScience.

 === Chairperson ===

 The Chairperson has the following responsibilities:
 * to call the meetings of the Board;
 * to set the agenda for the meetings;
 * to chair the meetings;
 * to direct the Secretary between Board meetings;
 * to resolve conflicts of interest which may arise among the parties in the collaboration;
 * to review the membership of the Board annually.

 === Secretary ===
 
The Secretary has the following responsibilities:
 * to deal with the administrative needs of the Board;
 * arrange the meetings of the Board;
 * maintain and publish the minutes of the meetings.

 === Responsibilities of Board Members ===
 
The members of the Board have the following responsibilities:
 * to attend meetings of the Board and discharge any actions;
 * to provide strategic advice to the collaboration;
 * to protect the interests of the institution which they represent;
 * to approve the ICAT roadmap;
 * to ensure that the institution which they represents provides appropriate resources to the collaboration.

== Meetings ==
 
The Board will meet when required, but at least once per annum.  Proposals of agenda items can be sent to the Secretary.

== - the end - ==