#summary Release criteria for Icat-4.0.

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

$Id$

= Release criteria for icat-4.0 =

== Introduction ==
ICAT 4 will be released in two phases.  The initial release was for the deployment of ICAT CLF at RAL in November 2011.  This release has full functionality to meet the requirements of CLF, but it does not have the functionality to make it easy to migrate from ICAT 3 to ICAT4.  Such functionality will be provided in 2012.  The present document describes what is included for ICAT 4.0.  Note that the implementation of ICAT 4 for CLF is in deployment test and is working well.

== Functionality requirements ==

 * API supports new methods;
 * Set of API examples which are easy to run;
 * Support for Topcat;
 * Support for IDS;
 * Support for ECAT2.
 
Not included:
 * Support for MySQL;
 * ICAT CMD line utility to simplify testing the API.
 
== Performance requirements ==

 * The performance will be documented in a CLF report which will be written in December 2011.

== Documentation requirements ==

 * Machine generated API documentation;
 * Documentation is available on the wiki for Project Scott (available behind the RAL firewall);
 * Installation notes for IDS, ECAT2, CIC, Database, CLF schema and authorisation.
    
== Reliability requirements == 

 * The reliability will be documented in the CLF report. 

== Compatibility requirements ==

 * Operates correctly with Topcat;
 * Operates correctly with IDS;
 * Operates correctly with ECAT2.

== Migration tools ==

Migration tools are required in order to migrate an installation of ICAT 3 to ICAT 4.

 * No migration tools are provided in ICAT 4.0.

== Deprecation tools ==

Deprecation tools are required in order to warn a developer of the use of deprecated API calls in an installation of ICAT 3.

 * No deprecation tools are provided in ICAT 4.0.

== - the end - ==