#summary ICAT Data Portal Installation .
#labels Icat-DP


= Data Portal Installation =
Author(s): Glen Drinkwater

== Introduction  ==

This document is to guide an administrator through the steps needed to install the Data Portal v3.3 onto Glassfish v2 UR2 b4 on Microsoft Windows or Linux.

== Prerequisites ==

The installation needs the following software installed:
 1. Java 6 Update 6 from http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp
 1. Apache Ant v1.7+ from http://ant.apache.org
 1. Glassfish v2 UR2 b4 from https://glassfish.dev.java.net/downloads/v2ur2-b04.html

The installation also needs this database
 1. An installed Data Portal 3.3 schema instance on an Oracle DB 


'''''Note:''''' From now on 'JAVA_HOME' and 'GLASSFISH_HOME' represent the root directory installation of Java and Glassfish respectively.	

If you have already installed the ICAT API, please go to section 3 and then onto 7 or 8 depending whether Glassfish is currently running.

== Installation ==

 1. Download and unpack the '''installation.zip''' file provided by Devigo
   a. This contains all the binary jars and ant scripts needed to install Data Portal
   a. This will be known as the 'INSTALLATION_HOME'
 1. Check ant is installed with the correct version by executing this from the command prompt:
   a. {{{$ ant -version  }}}                Apache Ant version 1.7.0 compiled on December 13 2006
 1. Configure the 'INSTALLATION_HOME'/nbproject/database.properties file.
   a. Configure the Data Portal core schema
     i. Add your own values to the dataportal.user, dataportal.url and dataportal.password properties
     i. This is for the Data Portal core schema’s username, password and url
     i. Note that dataportal.url must be in Oracle JDBC format, i.e. start with jdbc:oracle:thin:@
   a. Configure the name of facility you wish to install.
     i. Change facility.name to either ISIS or DLS
     i. NB: This will either install the version of Data Portal for ISIS or DLS
 1. Configure the ''' 'INSTALLATION_HOME'/nbproject/glassfish.properties''' file.
   a. Configure the application server Glassfish
     i. If you are using the default Glassfish installation sjsas.admin.port, sjsas.http.port, sjsas.password, sjsas.host, sjsas.username and sjsas.domain can leave alone.
     i. Change sjsas.root to the 'GLASSFISH_HOME' remembering to add the escape character \ if you are on windows for :  and \
     i. Change admin.auth.password to the password you wish to add for the admin ICAT API web services.  The username will be facility.name-admin from 3 c) i) i.e. DLS-admin
   a. This step can be skipped if you have already installed the ICAT API
 1. Now the configuration is finished the installation can start with a series of ant commands executed in the 'INSTALLATION_HOME'
 1. '''{{{ $ ant –f dataportal.xml init-config }}}'''
   a. Copies the required files onto the Glassfish server i.e. Oracle’s JDBC driver
   a. Copies a jar file to fix a bug in the StAX Parser in Java 6.
     i. NB: If you are using Linux, you will need to manually copy ''''INSTALLATION_HOME'/lib/wstx-asl-3.9.2.jar''' into ''''JAVA_HOME'/jre/lib/endorsed''' creating the endorsed directory if it does not exist.
 1. '''{{{ $ ant –f dataportal.xml start-domain }}}'''
   a. Starts the Glassfish server, if it complains of not starting, check ''http://localhost:4848''. 
   a. If it still has not started use the commands {{{'GLASSFISH_HOME'/bin/asadmin start-domain domain1}}} and {{{ 'GLASSFISH_HOME'/bin/asadmin stop-domain domain}}}1 to start and stop the default domain domain1
 1. '''{{{ $ ant –f dataportal.xml install}}}'''
   a. Creates all the glassfish data sources and connection pools and deploys the '''dataportal.ear''' onto Glassfish
 1. '''{{{ $ ant –f dataportal.xml configure-dataportal-db}}}'''
   a. Configures the dataportal DB
 1. '''{{{ $ ant –f dataportal.xml restart-domain }}}'''
   a. Allows the changes to 9 to be picked up from the database.
 1. To check if the installation is correct, goto ''https://localhost:8181/dataportal'' to view the login page.

== See Also ==

[source:"ICAT/DevigoTutorial/Data Portal Installation.doc"  Data Portal Installation]

[source:"ICAT/DevigoTutorial/DataPortal and ICAT Installation.pdf" Data Portal and ICAT Installation Presentation]