#summary Notes about the ICAT meeting in Dublin in Ireland in March 2014
#labels Featured

= Meeting in Ireland in 2014 =

== Date and time ==

13:30 on 24/Mar/2014 to 12:30 on 25/Mar/2014.

== Location ==

The meeting will be held in the Large Conference Room (LCR),School of Computer Science and Statistics, O'Reilly Institute, Trinity College Dublin - see http://www.tcd.ie/Maps/map.php?q=O%20Reilly%20Institute.

Please note that the visitor entrance for the O'Reilly Institute is through the adjacent external stairwell of the Hamilton Building, see - http://www.tcd.ie/Maps/map.php?b=195. Reduced mobility access is also available through the ground floor of the Hamilton Institute.

== Transport ==

The [http://www.aircoach.ie/timetables/route-700-dublin-airport-dublin-city-centre AirCoach] provides a bus service from the airport to Grafton Street.

== Wireless ==

Wireless networking (not the old "b" standard) will be available at the venue. The recommended mechanism is eduroam, otherwise temporary account can be allocated.

== Refreshments ==

Coffee will be provided. A dinner is being arranged on the Monday evening at Gallaghers Boxty House, 20-21 Temple Bar, Dublin 2, Ireland
though participants must pay for themselves. At the end of the ICAT meeting there is a 30 minute gap before the Umbrella meeting during which a sandwich lunch will be provided.

== Agenda ==

The  [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AsEvjQRbSmledEFyV2tFeFRWclY0aXVMWjc1RVdVRHc&usp=sharing  agenda] may be consulted.