===Actions record from ICAT collaboration meetings===
This page holds all but the most recent meetings<br>

The latest meetings are at MeetingActionsRecord<br><br>

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

== Meeting 26 - 17 November 2011 ==

=== Actions 26 ===
 
26.1 - Alistair Mills - 28 November 2011 

||Item   ||Description                                                            ||Res*(1) ||      Status||      Comment||
||26.00  ||Document the meeting                                                   ||AM      ||        Done||            -||
||26.01  ||Provide more information on the usage of ICAT4                         ||SF/AM   ||        Done||            -||
||26.02  ||Write a note describing controlling metadata based on IP of client     ||TG      ||        Done||            -||
||26.03  ||Send pom files for building ICAT4 to SF                                ||SR      ||        Done||            -||
||26.04  ||Try maven build with SF's maven scripts - see 26.03                    ||HC      ||        Done||            -||
||26.05  ||Investigate the Facility Unit tests in ICAT4                           ||SF/HC   ||           .||            -||
||26.06  ||Add upgrade of logging to icat4 roadmap                                ||AM      ||        Done||            -||
||26.07  ||Add IP address to session id in the roadmap                            ||AM      ||        Done||            -||
||26.08  ||Provide date for collaboration meeting in Grenoble to SR and others    ||AM      ||     Waiting||            -||
||26.09  ||Add Milan to the invitation list for the meetings                      ||AM      ||        Done||            -||
||26.10  ||Chase Holger about attending the collaboration meetings                ||AM      ||        Done||            -||

=== Agenda 26 ===

   * Actions since the meeting on 3 November
   * Status of ICAT work at ORNL (SR)     
       * Removal of local maven repository
       * Facility based unit test: looks like test input data are hard coded
       * Reporting and event logging in icat4
       * IP address gets logged with sessionId? (requested by SNS IT)

== Meeting 25 - 3 November 2011 ==

Agenda for ICAT collaboration telephone conference on 3 November 2011<br>

 * Actions since the meeting on 22 September
 * Status of ICAT 4 (Alistair)
 * Representation of time (Steve)
 * Status of port to MySQL (Alistair)
 * Resources available in 2012 (All)
 * Progress on evaluation of ICAT4 (Steve)
 * Possibility of adding a .props file for configuration
 * Brief thoughts on adding notification
 * BMT rather than CMT (Steve) 
 * Status of ICAT work at ILL (J-F)
 * Status of ICAT work at ORNL (SR)
  
=== Actions 25 ===
 
Actions from ICAT collaboration telephone conference on 3 November 2011<br>
25.1 - Alistair Mills - 3 November 2011 

||Item   ||Description                                                            ||Res*(1) ||      Status||      Comment||
||25.00  ||Document the meeting                                                   ||AM      ||        Done||            -||
||25.01  ||Follow up on actions 24.04 and 24.06                                   ||AM      ||        Done||            -||
||25.02  ||Follow up on action 24.03 (Use of Maven for building ICAT4)            ||SF      ||        Done||            -||
||25.03  ||Attempt to do ICAT 3 to ICAT 4 upgrade using an ISIS testbed           ||TG      ||           .||            -||
||25.04  ||Attempt to do ICAT 3 to ICAT 4 upgrade using an ILL testbed            ||J-F     ||           .||            -||
||25.05  ||Discuss the GF 3.1.1 problem                                           ||AM/SR   ||        Done||            -||
||25.06  ||Investigate ways to represent time to suit the data                    ||SF/RS   ||           .||            -||
||25.07  ||Add a properties file to ICAT4                                         ||SF      ||        Done||            -||
||25.08  ||Experiment with Bean Managed Transactions for ICAT 4.1                 ||SF      ||        Done||            -||
||25.09  ||Send comments on the changes to the ICAT API to Steve                  ||All     ||        Done||            -||
||25.10  ||Provide a document about notification                                  ||SF      ||        Done||            -||
||25.11  ||Add fields for STARTTIME and ENDTIME to DATASET for ICAT 4.0           ||SF      ||        Done||            -||
||25.12  ||Defer further implementation of MySQL with ICAT until ICAT 4.1         ||AM      ||        Done||            -||
||25.13  ||Follow up with Shelly on ORNL requirements                             ||SR      ||        Done||            -||
||25.14  ||Investigate hosting a collaboration meeting at ILL in 1Q2012           ||J-F     ||        Done||            -||
||25.15  ||Schedule next collaboration meeting for 17 November 2011               ||AM      ||        Done||            -||

*(1) Collaborators

||init ||Name                         || Institute                  ||     Present  || Apologies ||
||TG   ||Tom Griffin                  || STFC ISIS                  ||     +        ||           ||
||SF   ||Steve Fisher                 || STFC                       ||     +        ||           ||
||AM   ||Alistair Mills               || STFC                       ||     +        ||           ||
||HC   ||Harjinder Chahal             || STFC                       ||     +        ||           ||
||KP   ||Kevin Phipps                 || STFC                       ||     +        ||           ||
||SR   ||Shelly Ren                   || ORNL                       ||     +        ||           ||
||J-F  ||Jean-Francois                || ILL                        ||     +        ||           ||
||RS   ||Richard Sinclair             || STFC                       ||              ||           ||

== Meeting 24 - 22 September 2011 ==

=== Actions 24 ===

Actions from ICAT collaboration telephone conference on 22 September 2011<br>
24.1 - Alistair Mills - 22 September 2011

||Item   ||Description                                                            ||Res*(1) ||      Status||      Comment||
||24.00  ||Document the meeting                                                   ||AM      ||        Done||            -||
||24.01  ||Add Ghita, Holger, Shelly and Harjinder to the meeting list            ||AM      ||        Done||            -||
||24.02  ||Write a note for the wiki about the Release criteria for ICAT4         ||AM      ||        Done||            -||
||24.03  ||Write a note for the wiki about the use of Maven with ICAT4            ||AM      ||        Done||             ||
||24.04  ||Test Glassfish 3.11 with ICAT4 and document any alerts                 ||AM      ||        Done||             ||
||24.05  ||Update the road map for ICAT 4 and link it to the Release criteria     ||AM      ||        Done||            -||
||24.06  ||Write a note with estimates of the effort required to release ICAT4    ||AM      ||   Cancelled||             ||
||24.07  ||Remind people of the next meeting on 6 October                         ||AM      ||        Done||            -||
||24.08  ||Update the ICAT4 roadmap                                               ||AM      ||        Done||            -||

*(1) Collaborators

||Init ||Name                         || Institute                  ||     Present  || Apologies ||
||TG   ||Tom Griffin                  || STFC ISIS                  ||     +        ||           ||
||HG   ||Holger Gebhard               || ILL                        ||              ||           ||
||SF   ||Steve Fisher                 || STFC                       ||              || +         ||
||AM   ||Alistair Mills               || STFC                       ||     +        ||           ||
||GKM  ||Ghita Kouadri Mostefaoui     || Diamond                    ||              ||           ||     
||SN   ||Sri Nagella                  || STFC                       ||     +        ||           ||
||RS   ||Richard Sinclair             || STFC                       ||              ||           ||
||RF   ||Ron Fowler                   || STFC                       ||              ||           ||
||HC   ||Harjinder Chahal             || STFC                       ||     +        ||           ||
||KP   ||Kevin Phipps                 || STFC                       ||              || +         ||
||SR   ||Shelly Ren                   || ORNL                       ||     +        ||           ||
||GK   ||George Kourousias            || ELLETRA                    ||              ||           ||
||MP   ||Milan Prica                  || ELLETRA                    ||              ||           ||
||BM   ||Brian Matthews               || STFC                       ||              ||           ||


== Meeting 23 - 8 September 2011 ==

=== Actions 23 ===

Actions from ICAT collaboration telephone conference on 8 September 2011<br>
23.1 - Alistair Mills - 8 September 2011

||Item   ||See also  ||Description                                                     ||Res*(1) ||           Status||      Comment||
||23.00  ||     -    ||Document the meeting                                            ||AM      ||             Done||            -||
||23.01  || 22.02    ||Documentation on API for ICAT3 and ICAT4                        ||KP      ||     ICAT3 - Done||            -||
||23.02  || 22.03    ||Create location for Jenkins, Sonar and Nexus on icatproject.org ||AM      ||         Deferred||            -||
||23.03  || 22.04    ||Performance tests for icat - Discuss with Tom                   ||AM      ||             Done||            -||
||23.04  || 22.05    ||Discuss the content of ICAT4 - Do this at mtg 24                ||AM      ||             Done||            -||
||23.05  || 21.06    ||Improvements to xmlingest - Discuss with Sri                    ||AM      ||             Done||            -||
||23.06  || 21.01    ||Rule based authentication - Discuss with Steve                  ||AM      ||             Done||            -||
||23.07  || 21.02    ||Deploy a vanilla ICAT4 in a VM, eg projectscott-ppe             ||AM      ||             Done||            -||
||23.08  || 21.03    ||Continuous build - Hudson - projectscott-tst and esctest        ||AM      ||             Done||            -||
||23.09  || 21.04    ||Copy of the documentation of the API of ICAT3 (icatproject.org) ||AM      ||             Done||            -||
||23.10  || 21.05    ||Update/demo of BIRT - Remind HG                                 ||AM      ||             Done||            -||

== Meeting 22 - 22 July 2011 ==

Actions from ICAT collaboration telephone conference on 22 July 2011<br>
22.1 - Alistair Mills - 22 July 2011

||Item   ||Description                                                  ||Res*(1) ||  Status||      Comment||
||22.00 ||Document the meeting                                          ||AM      ||    Done||            -||
||22.01 ||Add information about Mariusz work on the examples to wiki    ||AM      || Started||            -||
||22.02 ||Inform AM about the status of the documentation on the API    ||KP      ||   Done ||            -||
||22.03 ||Publish information on the continuous build web site          ||AM      ||      - ||            -||
||22.04 ||Provide material for icat3 performance tests                  ||TG      ||      - ||            -||
||22.05 ||Update the roadmap for ICAT4                                  ||AM      ||      - ||            -||
||22.06 ||Update the plan for the improvements for XML Ingest for DLS   ||AM      ||      - ||            -||

== Meeting 21 - 7 July 2011 ==

Actions from ICAT collaboration telephone conference on 7 July 2011<br>
21.1 - Alistair Mills - 7 July 2011

||Item   ||Description                                                  ||Res*(1) || Status||      Comment||
||21.00 ||Document the meeting                                          ||AM      ||   Done||            -||
||21.01 ||Add a note about rule based authentication to googlecode      ||SF      ||     - ||            -||
||21.02 ||Review the status of the MySQL version of ICAT                ||AW      ||     - ||            -||
||21.03 ||Review the status of the continuous build of ICAT             ||SN      ||     - ||            -||
||21.04 ||Provide a copy of the documentation on the API to googlecode  ||KP      ||     - ||            -||
||21.05 ||Provide an update/demo of BERT                                ||HG      ||     - ||            -||
||21.06 ||Try using the ICAT from the head of the SVN on Googlecode     ||SO      ||     - ||            -||
||21.07 ||Arrange the next meeting for 8 September 2011                 ||AM/TG   ||     - ||            -||
||21.08 ||Arrange a meeting of ICAT users at RAL on 22/7 about ICAT4    ||AM/TG   ||   Done||            -||

== Meeting 20 - 12 May 2011 ==

Actions from ICAT collaboration telephone conference on 12 May 2011<br>
20.1 - Alistair Mills - 12 May 2011

||Item  ||     Description                                             ||Res*(1)|| Status||      Comment||
||20.00 ||Document the meeting                                         ||AM     ||   Done||            -||
||20.01 ||Provide feedback to Steve on his authorisation ideas         ||All    ||   Done||            -||
||20.02 ||Provide feedback to Jessica on her download stats component  ||All    ||   Done||            -||
||20.03 ||Arrange the next meeting for 7 July 2011                     ||AM/TG  ||   Done||            -||


== Meeting 19 - 31 March 2011 ==

Actions from ICAT collaboration telephone conference on 03 March 2011<br>
19.1 - Alistair Mills - 31 March 2011

||New||     Description||                                             Res*(1)|| Status||  Comment*(2)||
||19.00 ||Document the meeting                                      ||TG/AM  ||   Done||            -||
||19.01 ||Add REST web service interface to roadmap                 ||AM     ||     Ok||            -||
||19.02 ||Provide the ISIS TopCat reqs to Sri for TopCat roadmap    ||TG     ||      .||            -||
||19.03 ||Update the ICAT roadmap and distribute                    ||AM     ||     Ok||            -||
||19.04 ||Ticket review at next meeting                             ||TG     ||      .||            -||
||19.05 ||Schedule next meeting for WEDNESDAY 13 April 2011         ||TG     ||     Ok||            -||

== Meeting 18 - 3 March 2011 ==

Actions from ICAT collaboration telephone conference on 03 March 2011<br>
18.1 - Alistair Mills - 3 March 2011

||New||     Description||                                             Res*(1)|| Status||  Comment*(2)||
||18.00 ||Document the meeting                                      ||TG/AM||   Done||     -||
||18.01 ||Be aware that from 01/2012 ILL may have another ICAT dev  ||All||     Ok||      -||
||18.02 ||Inform Roger Downing about the CIC ingest performance     ||AM||      .||       -||
||18.03 ||Create a road map for TopCat 1.1 or TopCat 2              ||SN||      .||       -||
||18.04 ||Provide a paper on rule based authentication              ||TG||      .||       -||
||18.05 ||Update the road map for icat4 and put on GoogleCode Wiki  ||AM||      .||       -||
||18.06 ||Update the workpackage description and put on GoogleCode  ||AM||      .||       -||

*(1) Collaborators
||init|| Name                        || Institute                  ||     Present  ||   Apologies
||TG  ||Tom Griffin                  || STFC ISIS                  ||+||           ||
||HG  ||Holger Gebhard               || ILL                        || ||           ||
||SF  ||Steve Fisher                 || STFC                       || ||           || +
||AM  ||Alistair Mills               || STFC                       ||+||           ||
||GKM ||Ghita Kouadri Mostefaoui     || Diamond                    || ||           ||
||SN  ||Sri Nagella                  || STFC                       ||+||           ||
||RS  ||Richard Sinclair             || STFC                       || ||           ||
||RF  ||Ron Fowler                   || STFC                       || ||           ||
||HC  ||Harjinder Chahal             || STFC                       ||+||           ||
||KP  ||Kevin Phipps                 || STFC                       || ||           || +

== Meeting 17 - 17 May 2011 ==

Actions from ICAT collaboration meeting on 17 February 2011 <br>
17.0 - AM, TG - 17 February 2011

|| Id || Description || Res*(1) || Tgt*(2) || Comment ||
||17.00 || Document the actions  || AM || Done || - ||
||17.01 || Document the road map for icat4 and distribute for comm. || AM || Done || - ||
||17.02 || Document the collaboration structure and distribute || AM || Done || - ||
||17.03 || Consolidate open actions into tickets || TG || 03/03 || - ||
||17.04 || Invite Fabio to give a talk on 24/2 and invite collab. || TG || Done || - ||

*(1) Collaborators:
||     || Name                    || Institute  || Present || Apologies ||
|| TG  || Tom Griffin             || ISIS || + ||   ||
|| AM  || Alistair Mills          || STFC || +  ||    ||
|| GKM ||Ghita Kouadri Mostefaoui || Diamond||  + ||   ||
||FB   ||Fabio Bonaccorso         || ELETTRA ||  || + ||
||HG   ||Holger Gebhard           || ILL ||   || + ||
||SF   ||Steve Fisher             || STFC ||   || + ||
||SN   ||Sri Nagella              || STFC ||   || + ||
||RS   ||Richard Sinclair         || STFC ||   || + ||
||RD   ||Roger Downing            || STFC ||   || + ||
||RF   ||Ron Fowler               || STFC ||   || + ||


== Meeting 14 - 7 January 2011 ==

Actions from ICAT collaboration meeting on 6 January 2011<br>
14.1 - Tom Griffin - 7 January 2011

Brief summary of discussions<br>
- SF suggestion for refactoring of ParameterSearching<br>
- SN fixed test cases for ParameterSearching<br>
- SF asked what was special about CLF XML ingest. TG and SN gave history of ISIS XML ingest<br>

|| New || Description || Res`*`(1) || Status || Comment`*`(2) ||
|| 14.00 || Document this meeting || TG || Done || . ||
|| 14.01 || Meetings now to be on alternate Thursdays at 1300GMT, starting 20th Jan 2011 || All || - || - ||
|| 14.02 || Refactoring of Parameter Methods - SF to circulate changes and reasoning || SF || - || - ||
|| 14.03 || All to feedback on SF's suggestions || ALL || - || - ||
|| 14.04 || Document difference between CLF and ISIS XML Ingest || SN || Next meeting || - ||
<br><br>

|| Updates || Description || Res`*`(1) || Status || Comment`*`(2) ||
|| 12.01 || Take responsibility for Code documentation || AM || Write a test for the API which documents the API || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.02 || Take responsibility for Installation documentation || SN || Ron still working on this || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.03 || Take responsibility for My SQL version of icat || RS/AM || TG has completed code/app server work. Waiting for RS to resolve SEQUENCE issue  || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.04 || Take responsibility for User Authentication || TG || No progress || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.05 || Take responsibility for Reporting || TG || Looking at JASPER, BIRT and scientific reports. HG to add to wiki page || End Mar 2011 ||
|| 12.06 || Take responsibility for Test suite || AM || There is a test for xmlingest in progress || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.07 || Take responsibility for Application server independence || . || No progress || . ||
|| 12.08 || Take responsibility for Authorisation/ Permissions || SN/AM || No progress || End Mar 2011 ||
|| 12.09 || Take responsibility for XML Ingest || AM/SN || Multiple threading causes 4% failure.  Try single threading. Failure rate possibly worse than though || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.10 || Take responsibility for documenting Data loader (DLS database load) || RD/AM || Chase Roger about this || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.11 || Take responsibility for Logging || SF || Steve has documented and made minor code change. SF to investigate SN reported unit test issue|| End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.12 || Take responsibility for Admin documentation || TG || AM to provide information about the CLF stored procedures || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.13 || Take responsibility for direct build and test || SN || This is being tested in the CLF project || End Jan  2011 ||
|| 12.14 || Take responsibility for surrogate ids || TG || On going || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.15 || Take responsibility for document the parameter search || NC || Document emailed. All to review (esp. SF) || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.16 || Take responsibility for API change management || SN ||  No progress || End Jan 2011 ||


|| Completed || Description || Res`*`(1) || Status || Comment`*`(2) ||
|| 12.17 || Provide spec of new method for search || NC/HG || Complete || - ||
|| 13.00 || Document this meeting || AM || Complete || . ||
|| 13.01 || Meet again on 6 January 2011 at 1300 GMT || Complete || - || - ||

== Meeting 13 - 17 December 2010 ==

Actions from ICAT collaboration meeting on 16 December 2010<br>
13.1 - Alistair Mills - 17 December 2010
|| New || Description || Res`*`(1) || Status || Comment`*`(2) ||
|| 13.00 || Document this meeting || AM || Ok || . ||
|| 13.01 || Meet again on 6 January 2011 at 1300 GMT || All || - || - ||
<br><br>

|| Updates || Description || Res`*`(1) || Status || Comment`*`(2) ||
|| 12.01 || Take responsibility for Code documentation || AM || Write a test for the API which documents the API || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.02 || Take responsibility for Installation documentation || SN || Work has been done on this by Ron - distribute it || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.03 || Take responsibility for My SQL version of icat || RS/AM || Work has been done on this by Richard || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.04 || Take responsibility for User Authentication || TG || No progress || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.05 || Take responsibility for Reporting || TG || Looking at JASPER, BIRT and scientific reports. HG to add to wiki page || End Mar 2011 ||
|| 12.06 || Take responsibility for Test suite || AM || There is a test for xmlingest in progress || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.07 || Take responsibility for Application server independence || . || No progress || . ||
|| 12.08 || Take responsibility for Authorisation/ Permissions || SN/AM || No progress || End Mar 2011 ||
|| 12.09 || Take responsibility for XML Ingest || AM/SN || Multiple threading causes 4% failure.  Try single threading || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.10 || Take responsibility for documenting Data loader (DLS database load) || RD/AM || Chase Roger about this || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.11 || Take responsibility for Logging || SF || Steve has done some work to consolidate in log4j || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.12 || Take responsibility for Admin documentation || TG || AM to provide information about the CLF stored procedures || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.13 || Take responsibility for direct build and test || SN || This is being tested in the CLF project || End Jan  2011 ||
|| 12.14 || Take responsibility for surrogate ids || TG || On going || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.15 || Take responsibility for document the parameter search || NC || Add the documentation to the Google SVN and Wiki ||  End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.16 || Take responsibility for API change management || SN ||  No progress || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.17 || Provide spec of new method for search || NC/HG || Complete. Sri to verify || Soon ||


`*`(1) Collaborators:
||   || Present || Apologies ||
|| TG Tom Griffin || + ||   ||
|| SN Sri Nagella || + ||   ||
|| AM Alistair Mills || + ||   ||
|| RS Richard Sinclair ||   || + ||
|| RD Roger Downing ||   ||   ||
|| HG Holger Gebhard || + ||   ||
|| NC Najor Cruzcruz || + ||  ||
|| SF Steve Fisher ||   || + ||
|| RF Ron Fowler ||   || + ||
|| GKM Ghita Kouadri Mostefaoui || + ||   ||

`*`(2) Comments
The dates shown here are the earliest dates when we can expect to see real progress with the work.
The persons responsible will be expected to provide status on their work at each meeting.

----
== Meeting 12 - 1 December 2010 ==

Actions from ICAT collaboration meeting on 01 December 2010<br>
12.1 - Alistair Mills - 01 December 2010

|| New || Description || Res`*`(1) || Status || Comment`*`(2) ||
||12.00 || Document this meeting || AM || Ok || . ||
||12.01 || Take responsibility for Code documentation || AM ||- || End Jan 2011 ||
||12.02 || Take responsibility for Installation documentation || SN || - || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.03 || Take responsibility for My SQL version of icat || RS/AM || - || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.04 || Take responsibility for User Authentication || TG || - || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.05 || Take responsibility for Reporting || TG || - || End Mar 2011 ||
|| 12.06 || Take responsibility for Test suite || AM || - || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.07 || Take responsibility for Application server independence || . || - || . ||
|| 12.08 || Take responsibility for Authorisation/ Permissions || SN/AM || - || End Mar 2011 ||
|| 12.09 || Take responsibility for XML Ingest || AM/SN || - || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.10 || Take responsibility for Data loader || RD/AM || - || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.11 || Take responsibility for Logging || SF || - || End Jan 2011 || Note: Transferred to SF ||
|| 12.12 || Take responsibility for Admin documentation || TG || - || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.13 || Take responsibility for direct build and test || SN || - || End Jan  2011 ||
|| 12.14 || Take responsibility for surrogate ids || TG || - || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.15 || Take responsibility for document the parameter search || NC || - ||  End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.16 || Take responsibility for API change management || SN || - || End Jan 2011 ||
|| 12.17 || Provide spec of new method for search || NC/HG || - || Soon ||
|| 12.18 || Meet again on 16 December 2010 at 1300 GMT || All || - || - ||

`*`(1) Responsibilities of participants:
||   ||   || Primary || Secondary ||
|| TG || Tom Griffin || 4 ||   ||
|| SN || Sri Nagella || 4 || 1 ||
|| AM || Alistair Mills || 3 || 2 ||
|| RS || Richard Sinclair || 1 ||   ||
|| HG || Holger Gebhard || 1 ||   ||      
|| NC ||  Najor Cruz-cruz || 2 ||   ||           
|| RD || Roger Downing || 1 ||   ||
|| SF || Steve Fisher || 1 ||   ||        
|| RF || Ron Fowler ||   ||   ||

`*`(2) Comments
The dates shown here are the earliest dates when we can expect to see real progress with the work.
The persons responsible will be expected to provide status on their work at each meeting.

== Meeting 11 - 19 November 2010 ==

Actions from ICAT collaboration meeting on 18 November 2010<br>
11.1 - Alistair Mills - 19 November 2010

|| New   || Description                                                                                        || Resp || Status      || Comment ||
|| 11.01 || Improve way of capturing documentation/service requests; copy existing requests into Google groups || TG   || In progress || Soon ||
|| 11.02 || Provide requirements for logging/reporting in ICAT                                                 || ALL  || See 12.05   || Subsumed by 12.05 || 
|| 11.03 || Provide ideas for test suite                                                                       || ALL  || See 12.06   || Subsumed  by 12.06 ||
|| 11.04 || Meet again 2nd Dec                                                                                 || ALL  || -           || - ||

----