#summary Recent ICAT collaboration meetings
#labels Featured

*Contents*
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Topics for future meetings =

The dates shown on this list are indicative only:

 * Review of requirements for ICAT (4 April 13)
 * Icat Data Server (IDS) development (18 April 13)
 * ICAT 4.3 readiness (2 May 13)
 * Topcat status (16 May 13)
 * ICAT Job Portal (IJP) development (30 May 13)
 * ICAT contribs (13 June 13)
 * ICAT production deployments at RAL, ILL, SNS, ESRF (27 June 13)

= Record of actions from recent ICAT collaboration meetings =  

This page holds records of the recent meetings. Earlier meetings are at MeetingActionsRecordArchive.

== Meeting 62 - 11 July 2013 ==

 * Actions from the meeting 61 (Chair)
 * Status of ICAT 4.3 (Steve)
 * New components (Steve)
 * Feedback on Topcat 1.9 Snapshot (All)
 * Issues from ICAT production deployments (All)
 * AOB (All)

== Meeting 61 - 13 June 2013 ==

 * Actions from the meeting 60 (Alistair)
 * Release conditions for products (Alistair)
 * Status of contribs  (Alistair)
 * AOB (Any)

=== Notes 61 ===

We were pleased to have Milan join us again.  He has been away from work for a month following an operation on his wrist.

Nicola informed us that he is going to leave ESRF in June to work in a commercial organisation in Zurich.  The chairman thanked Nicola for his work with ICAT and wished him well in his new position.

There was discussion about the appropriateness of the release conditions which AM had added to the wiki.  It was agreed that this would be discussed again, for example when ICAT 4.3 is close to release.

SF reported that progress with ICAT 4.3 is good; that free text search is working and is very efficient; that consolidation of code is reducing the volume of code, and making things simpler in the longer term. 

TG reported that he is working on a simple browser for ICAT.  He will put it into contrib when it is ready.

SF reported that he has done some timing tests on the download component of the IDS.  This has led to changes in the implementation which ensures that the cypher in SSL mode is set dynamically and this generally ensure less time for the cypher.

AM reported that GF 4 has been released and that he has deployed ICAT, Authdb and Topcat on a GF 4 and that they appear to work correctly.  There was a problem trying to deploy the download component of IDS; as this is not yet a supported product, this is a matter for development.

AM reported that he had deployed ICAT with GF4 with an Apache front-end.  This work has been done at ESRF and will be used for the ESRF production ICAT.  The GF4 and the Apache communicate with one another using AJP.  There was a bug in GF 3 which meant that this did not work when using https, due to an error in the GF which continued to use http, when it should have used https.  The bug has been fixed in GF 4.  To verify that the bug was due to GF3, having got ICAT to work with GF4, AM then tried changing back to GF3, and the ICAT did not work.

=== Actions 61 ===

|| Item  || Description                                                                     || Res   ||           Status||               Comment||
|| 61.00 || Document the meeting and update the actions                                     || AM    ||             Done||                     -||
|| 61.01 || Put the simple ICAT browser into contrib when it is ready                       || TG    ||                .||                     -||
|| 61.02 || Write a note about the performance on the download component of IDS             || SF    ||                .||                     -||
|| 61.03 || Write a note about GF 4 and AJP                                                 || AM    ||                .||                     -||

=== Attendance 61 ===

||Init ||Name                         || Institute                  ||     Present  || Apologies ||
||AM   ||Alistair Mills               || STFC SCD                   ||     +        ||           ||
||SMF  ||Steve Fisher                 || STFC SCD                   ||     +        ||           ||
||NB   ||Nicola Bessone               || ESRF                       ||     +        ||           ||
||MP   ||Milan Prica                  || ELETTRA                    ||     +        ||           ||
||TG   ||Tom Griffin                  || STFC ISIS Facility         ||     +        ||           ||
||JH   ||Jamie Hall                   || ILL                        ||     +        ||           ||
||KP   ||Kevin Phipps                 || STFC SCD                   ||              ||     +     ||
||IC   ||Idrissou Chado               || Soleil                     ||              ||     +     ||

== Meeting 60 - 30 May 2013 ==

 * Actions from the meeting 59 (Alistair)
 * Roadmap for ICAT 4.3 (Alistair)
 * Release conditions for ICAT 4.3 (Alistair)
 * Status of IJP (Steve)
 * Status of IDS (Alistair)
 * Status of Topcat (Alistair)
 * AOB (Any)

=== Notes 60 ===

We were pleased to have Milan join us again.  He has been away from work for a month following an operation on his wrist.

Ghita informed us that she is going to leave Diamond in June to take up an academic position teaching Computer Science in a University.  The chairman thanked Ghita for her work with ICAT and wished her well in her new position.

Steve said that work on ICAT 4.3 was progressing well, with the development of Notifications and Logging completed.  He will deal with Free text next.  He said that when he completes the development of a feature, he changes the status of the corresponding ticket to started.  The ticket will be closed when the feature is included in a release.  If further work is required following release, a new ticket will be created.

Alistair reported that he had written notes about the release conditions for ICAT and IDS.  He will send an email to the mailing list inviting comments.

Steve reported that the IJP is now ready for deployment in LSF at STFC.  A paper has been written and will be presented at a conference in Zurich new week.  He agreed to finalise a release of this product and to make an announcement.

Steve reported that as Antony has left the project, we are short of resources for the development and support of Topcat.  We would very much appreciate it, if one of our partners were to volunteer to support or develop Topcat.

Alistair reported that as Frazer has left the project, we have recruited a student who will join for three months from the beginning of September.  His main task will be to prepare the IDS for release.  We are expecting to have Frazer working with the project team from September again.  This will provide continuity in the work with IDS.

Alistair and Steve reported that STFC is going to recruit at least one contractor for several months to support the ICAT related work until a permanent replacement can be found for Antony.

The meeting finished at 15:25 BST.

=== Actions 60 ===

|| Item  || Description                                                                     || Res   ||           Status||               Comment||
|| 60.00 || Document the meeting and update the actions                                     || AM    ||             Done||                     -||
|| 60.01 || Add a page to the wiki about ICAT 4.3 and IDS 1.0 release conditions            || AM    ||             Done||                     -||
|| 60.02 || Send a note to the mailing list about the notes on release conditions           || AM    ||             Done||                     -||
|| 60.03 || Finalise a release of IJP and send a note to the mailing list                   || SF    ||                .||                     -||
|| 60.04 || Consider offering help to support or develop Topcat                             || All   ||                .||                     -||
|| 60.05 || Make changes to the room booking at RAL for the ICAT meetings                   || AM    ||             Done||                     -||


=== Attendance 60 ===

||Init ||Name                         || Institute                  ||     Present  || Apologies ||
||AM   ||Alistair Mills               || STFC SCD                   ||     +        ||           ||
||SMF  ||Steve Fisher                 || STFC SCD                   ||     +        ||           ||
||PG   ||Pablo Garcia                 || Alba                       ||     +        ||           ||
||GKM  ||Ghita Kouadri Mostefaoui     || Diamond                    ||     +        ||           ||     
||NB   ||Nicola Bessone               || ESRF                       ||     +        ||           ||
||MP   ||Milan Prica                  || ELETTRA                    ||     +        ||           ||
||GK   ||George K                     || ELETTRA                    ||     +        ||           ||
||KP   ||Kevin Phipps                 || STFC SCD                   ||              ||     +     ||
||TG   ||Tom Griffin                  || STFC ISIS Facility         ||              ||     +     ||
||IC   ||Idrissou Chado               || Soleil                     ||              ||     +     ||

== Meeting 59 - 16 May 2013 ==

 * Actions from the meetings 58 (Alistair)
 * Status of ICAT 4.3 (Steve)
 * Status of anonymous authenticator (Steve)
 * Status of IDS (Antony)
 * AOB (Any)

=== Notes 59 ===

Steve reported that Antony has now left the collaboration as he has a new job within STFC SCD.  Alistair was asked to make an announcement about the availability of the technology preview of the IDS.  Alistair reported that the downloader part of the IDS had performed well during the service verification on 10 May 2013.

(Steve and Alistair reviewed the status of the materials for the IDS on 22 May 2013 and decided that the IDS is not ready for a technology preview.  There will be a student working on this from July, and we expect to have it ready for preview by September). 

Steve reported that the anonymous authenticator is now available.  Alistair reported that he has successfully deployed it on one of the test icats for Pandata.

Kevin reported that he has deployed ICAT 4.2.5 in production for CLF at RAL.  This appears to have cured the problem of memory leak and improved the reliability of ICAT.

Kevin and Tom both reported that adding additional indexes to some of the tables in the database has made a large difference to the time required for queries.  The response time is much lower, and it is much more consistent.

There was discussion of how to implement index generation in ICAT 4.3.  There is not a standard way in SQL to tell a database to create indexes.  Furthermore, the tables which requires the indexes can vary from one installation to another.  There is a way to tell EclipseLink to generate indexes in tables, but this does not work if a different persistence provider is used.  It was agreed to provide documentation on index generation.

Steve reported that adding the extensions to the query language for ICAT to support the changes to the schema to be introduced in icat 4.3 is rather complicated and would delay the availability of ICAT 4.3.  It was agreed that Steve should take the time to get it correct, and if it delays ICAT 4.3 until after the summer recess, this would be satisfactory.  (There is a requirement of Pandata that the changes to the schema of ICAT are required by October 2013 - Ed).

=== Actions 59 ===

|| Item  || Description                                                                     || Res   ||           Status||               Comment||
|| 59.00 || Document the meeting and update the actions                                     || AM    ||             Done||                     -||
|| 58.01 || Make an announcement about the technology preview of the IDS                    || AM    || Will not be done|| The IDS is not ready ||

=== Attendance 59 ===

||Init ||Name                         || Institute                  ||     Present  || Apologies ||
||AM   ||Alistair Mills               || STFC SCD                   ||     +        ||           ||
||SMF  ||Steve Fisher                 || STFC SCD                   ||     +        ||           ||
||DG   ||David Garcia                 || Alba                       ||     +        ||           ||
||DG   ||Pablo                        || Alba                       ||     +        ||           ||
||KP   ||Kevin Phipps                 || STFC SCD                   ||     +        ||           ||
||GKM  ||Ghita Kouadri Mostefaoui     || Diamond                    ||     +        ||           ||     
||TG   ||Tom Griffin                  || STFC ISIS Facility         ||     +        ||           ||
||NB   ||Nicola Bessone               || ESRF                       ||     +        ||           ||
||IC   ||Idrissou Chado               || Soleil                     ||     +        ||           ||
||JH   ||Jamie Hall                   || IIL                        ||     +        ||           ||

== Meeting 58 - 2 May 2013 ==

 * Actions from the meetings 57 (SMF)
 * Status of ICAT 4.3 (SMF)
 * Status of SV4 of Pandata (AM)
 * Status of CCFE (AM)
 * AOB (Any)

=== Notes 58 ===

The meeting discussed actions and updated the status of actions.

SMF stated that a 4.2.5 version of ICAT would be released to fix a thread/memory leak related to the initialisation of log4j. He was reminded that there may be a problem with the frequency of access to the sequence table and that this might also go into 4.2.5. 

SMF stated that ICAT 4.3.0 would include the changes required by ISIS for a more powerful query language supporting more complex authz rules.

In AM's absence GK reported on PaNdata SV4 which will start next week and be based on "Big V".

AOB: 

SR reported that she was working with APS on a new pilot project

SMF asked if there was any interest in a "File Authenticator". There wasn't so it will not happen. The question then arose can we find out what authenticators are present and what credentials they require. TopCAT can manage without but at the expense of having to configure a plugin correctly. A new requirement will be added.

AW reported that there was good progress on Noris's admin interface to TopCAT.

It was reported that the Chinese Neutron Source have successfully deployed an ICAT and TopCAT.

Finally GKM reported that "Actors" had been added to DAWN.

=== Actions 58 ===

|| Item  || Description                                                                     || Res   ||       Status||               Comment||
|| 57.02 || Prepare a distribution of a technology preview of the Download Manager          || AW    ||         Done||                     -||
|| 58.00 || Document the meeting and update the actions                                     || SMF   ||         Done||                     -||
|| 58.01 || Produce 4.2.5 release of ICAT                                                   || SMF   ||         Done||                    - ||
|| 58.02 || Add a requirement to be able to discover what authenticators are present and what credentials they require.       || SMF        ||         Done|| Issue 122 ||


=== Attendance 58 ===

||Init ||Name                         || Institute                  ||     Present  || Apologies ||
||AM   ||Alistair Mills               || STFC SCD                   ||              ||       +   ||
||SMF  ||Steve Fisher                 || STFC SCD                   ||     +        ||           ||
||DG   ||David Garcia                 || Alba                       ||              ||       +   ||
||KP   ||Kevin Phipps                 || STFC SCD                   ||     +        ||           ||
||AW   ||Antony Wilson                || STFC SCD                   ||     +        ||           ||
||GKM  ||Ghita Kouadri Mostefaoui     || Diamond                    ||     +        ||           ||     
||TG   ||Tom Griffin                  || STFC ISIS Facility         ||     +        ||           ||
||NB   ||Nicola Bessone               || ESRF                       ||     +        ||           ||
||IC   ||Idrissou Chado               || Soleil                     ||     +        ||           ||
||SR   ||Shelly Ren                   || ORNL SNS                   ||     +        ||           ||
||GK   ||George Kourousias            || ELETTRA                    ||     +        ||           ||



== Meeting 57 - 18 April 2013 ==

 * Actions from the meetings 56 (Alistair)
 * Icat Data Server (IDS) development (Antony)
 * AOB (Any)

=== Notes 57 ===

The meeting discussed actions from earlier meetings and updated the status of actions.

The meeting discussed the arrival of CCFE as a collaborator.  Alistair agreed to send a note to the collaboration about this.  There is now a note called InductionProcess on the wiki.  The intention is to follow this process and to enhance the note.  The purpose of this is to ensure that new partners get off to a good start.  We look forward to having a representative of CCFE attend one of these meetings.

The meeting discussed the status of the reference implementation of the IDS.  One part of this is called the Download Manager.  This is now in pre-production with both the ISIS and DLS facilities.  It will also be used as part of the service verification which will be conducted by Pandata.  It was agreed to make a distribution of the download manager.  This is a technology preview, and should only be used for testing.

As Steve Fisher is on vacation, the meeting did not discuss the status of ICAT 4.3.

Tom has created a google group called icat-issues@googlegroups.com.  Alistair agreed to add a link to this group on http://www.icatproject.org. 

The meeting concluded after 20 minutes.  A new record for brevity!

=== Actions 57 ===

|| Item  || Description                                                                     || Res*(1)   ||       Status||               Comment||
|| 57.00 || Document the meeting and update the actions                                     || AM        ||         Done||                     -||
|| 57.01 || Inform the collaboration of the arrival of CCFE                                 || AM        ||         Done|| http://www.ccfe.ac.uk||
|| 57.02 || Prepare a distribution of a technology preview of the Download Manager          || AW        ||            .||                     -||
|| 57.03 || Add a link to icat-issues on http://www.icatproject.org                         || AM        ||         Done||                     -||

=== Attendance 57 ===

||Init ||Name                         || Institute                  ||     Present  || Apologies ||
||AM   ||Alistair Mills               || STFC SCD                   ||     +        ||           ||
||SMF  ||Steve Fisher                 || STFC SCD                   ||              ||    +      ||
||DG   ||David Garcia                || Alba                       ||     +        ||           ||
||KP   ||Kevin Phipps                 || STFC SCD                   ||     +        ||           ||
||AW   ||Antony Wilson                || STFC SCD                   ||     +        ||           ||
||GKM  ||Ghita Kouadri Mostefaoui     || Diamond                    ||     +        ||           ||     
||TG   ||Tom Griffin                  || STFC ISIS Facility         ||     +        ||           ||
||FB   ||Frazer Barnsley              || STFC SCD                   ||     +        ||           ||

== Meeting 56 - 4 April 2013 ==

 * Actions from the meetings 55 (Alistair)
 * Review of requirements for ICAT (Steve)
 * Review of requirements for ICAT related parts such as Topcat, IDS, IJP (Steve)
 * AOB (Any)

=== Actions 56 ===

|| Item  || Description                                                                     || Res*(1)   ||  Status||               Comment||
|| 56.00 || Document the meeting and update the actions                                     || AM        ||    Done||                     -||
|| 56.01 || Arrange for copies of Pandata presentations to be available                     || AM        ||    Done|| https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/source/browse/#svn%2Fmeetings%2FPandataLund, https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/source/browse/#svn%2Fmeetings%2FLund2013Talks||
|| 56.02 || Add a paragraph to the requirements page about general requirements             || AM        ||    Done|| Deployment, Ingestion, Publishing, User office, Setup, Operations, Common standards||
||   .   ||   - PMH interface                                                               || SMF       ||    Done||                     -||
||   .   ||   - Revision of XML schema                                                      || SMF       ||    Done||                     -||
||   .   ||   - Additional indices in some tables                                           || SMF       ||    Done||                     -||
|| 56.03 || Make the priority of the requirement for filesystem interface to ICAT, high     || SMF       ||    Done||                     -||
|| 56.04 || Create tickets for each of the ICAT  requirements and link to index page        || SMF       ||    Done||                     -||
|| 56.05 || Provide information about the memory leak in the logging to SN et alia          || TG        ||    Done||                     -||

=== Attendance 56 ===

||Init ||Name                         || Institute                  ||     Present  || Apologies ||
||AM   ||Alistair Mills               || STFC SCD                   ||     +        ||           ||
||SMF  ||Steve Fisher                 || STFC SCD                   ||     +        ||           ||
||MP   ||Milan Prica                  || ELETTRA                    ||     +        ||           ||
||NV   ||Nicola Bessone               || ESRF                       ||     +        ||           ||
||PG   ||Pablo Garcia                 || Alba                       ||     +        ||           ||
||SR   ||Shelly Ren                   || ORNL SNS                   ||     +        ||           ||
||KP   ||Kevin Phipps                 || STFC SCD                   ||     +        ||           ||
||BM   ||Brian Matthews               || STFC SCD                   ||     +        ||           ||
||AW   ||Antony Wilson                || STFC SCD                   ||     +        ||           ||
||GKM  ||Ghita Kouadri Mostefaoui     || Diamond                    ||     +        ||           ||     
||TG   ||Tom Griffin                  || STFC ISIS Facility         ||     +        ||           ||
||IC   ||Idrissou Chado               || Soleil                     ||              ||    +      ||


= Earlier meetings =

See MeetingActionsRecordArchive