#summary python-icat - A library for writing ICAT clients in Python

= python-icat =

python-icat is a Python package that provides a collection of modules
for writing programs that access an ICAT service using the SOAP
interface.  It is based on Suds and extends it with ICAT specific
features.

== System Requirements ==

 * Python 2.7, 2.7, 3.1, or 3.2.  The IDS client in python-icat has issues with Python 3.3 and 3.4, otherwise these Python version work as well.  Python 2.6 will do but requires patching the sources, see below.
 * Suds, either the [https://fedorahosted.org/suds/ original version] or the [https://bitbucket.org/jurko/suds/ fork by Jurko Gospodnetić].  The latter is recommended as the original version is not maintained any more and contains bugs.  Python 3 requires the jurko fork.
 * [http://pyyaml.org/wiki/PyYAML PyYAML].  (Only needed to use the YAML backend of icatdump.py and icatrestore.py and to run the example scripts.  Not required to install or use python-icat itself.)
 * [http://lxml.de/ lxml].  (Only needed to use the XML backend of icatdump.py and icatrestore.py.  Not required to install or use python-icat itself.)
 * [http://code.google.com/p/argparse/ argparse]. (Only for Python 2.6 and 3.1, argparse became part of the Python standard library in 2.7 and 3.2 respectively.)

== Download ==

Current Release:

 * [http://icatproject.googlecode.com/svn/contrib/python-icat/python-icat-0.5.0.tar.gz python-icat 0.5.0]

Old versions:

 * [http://icatproject.googlecode.com/svn/contrib/python-icat/python-icat-0.4.0.tar.gz python-icat 0.4.0]
 * [http://icatproject.googlecode.com/svn/contrib/python-icat/python-icat-0.3.0.tar.gz python-icat 0.3.0]
 * [http://icatproject.googlecode.com/svn/contrib/python-icat/python-icat-0.2.0.tar.gz python-icat 0.2.0]
 * [http://icatproject.googlecode.com/svn/contrib/python-icat/python-icat-0.1.0.tar.gz python-icat 0.1.0]

== Installation from Source ==

python-icat follows the standard Python conventions of packaging source distributions.  See the documentation on [http://docs.python.org/2.7/install/ Installing Python Modules] for details or to customize the install process.

 # Download the sources, unpack, and change into the source directory.
 # {{{python setup.py build}}}
 # {{{python setup.py install}}}

The last step might require admin privileges in order to write into the site-packages directory of your Python installation.

If you are using Python 2.6, apply python2_6.patch (included in the source distribution) after the first step.  It removes the use of dict comprehensions  and of the bytes string prefix 'b' which were introduced in Python 2.7.

== Additional Resources ==

 * I gave a [http://icatproject.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/RolfKrahl_python-icat_Dublin_2014.pdf presentation on python-icat] at the ICAT meeting, March 2014, Dublin.

== Author ==

Rolf Krahl