Requirements for a usage reporting system for ICAT

= Reporting Requirements =

== DLS ==

 * items to go here

== ILL ==

 The most important usage reporting requirements at ILL are those under 'Management Information' of ISIS.
(perhaps with the possibility to restrict reports on cycles).

Additionally there is a requirement at ILL for 'datafile and parameter' reports like e.g.:
(Wavelength as example, could be every parameter for an instrument)
- Report on the average wavelength expansion on Instrument X in the past x days/weeks/months/cycles
  (Result: list of period - avgVal pairs)
- Report on the wavelength distribution for instrument X in the past x days/weeks/months/cycles 
  (result: list of wavelength - #datafile pairs)
- How was the total wavelength distribution for instrument X grouped by reactorcycles/years.
  (result: for each cycles/period a list of wavelength - #datafile pairs)
- Compare the average wavelength expansion for 2 or more instruments in the past x days/weeks/months/cycles 
- Evt. answer to questions like: Are there typical dependencies between the values of the parameters (p1, ..., pN)
  for an instrument? 
Requesters: Scientific responsibles (but also interesting for ILL's instrument responsibles, management,
scientists or ICAT users). Similar stats can be imagined on samples (or publications).

== CLF ==

 * items to go here

== ISIS ==

*Management Information*
  # Report on how many people have logged into ICAT in the past x days/weeks/months
  # Report on data access (downloads) by investigation, dataset, data age (date), instrument, etc, all filterable by user id
  # Report on search term use and trending, again filterable by user id


*User Information*
  # Answer the 'Who has downloaded my data' question. PI (investigation admin) accessible logging of who has accessed that investigation record, who has downloaded it.
  # Show my previous searches
  # Show my previous downloads

*General comments*
  # All reports to be filterable and sortable by user id, institution, date range (days, months or years)