#summary Requirements for ICAT 4.1
#labels Icat4.1,Requirements

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Requirements for ICAT 4.1 =

The purpose of this page is to provide a place where people can write their shopping lists of requirements for ICAT 4.1.  As we translate these requirements into actions, we shall probably use a ticket to track the work.

== Related documents ==

 * DevelopmentIdeasNov2010 
 * Icat41Roadmap   

== General ==

 * clean up the API and remove all of the "3" from the names of things
 * document the API 
 * provide a simple downloading service
 * provide a simple ingestion client for HDF5
 * provide a simple mechanism for adding users
 * provide a simple mechanism for creating an investigation and adding users
 * provide the icat cmd line tool for rapid prototyping
 * support for mysql
 * support for a simple way to integrate ICAT with the upstream and downstream investigation management infrastructure
 * provide services on icatproject.org which are not available from google code, for example:
  * add a Jenkins server to icatproject.org and ensure that it is up to date
  * add a Sonar server to icatproject.org and ensure that it is up to date
  * add a Nexus server to icatproject.org and ensure that it is up to date



== CLF ==

Please meet the following requirements:

== CRISP ==

 * (D) Provide support for data mining

== DLS ==

Please meet the following requirements:

== ESRF ==

 * Visualization of data in TopCAT

== Eudat ==

Please meet the following requirements:

== ILL ==

Please meeting the following requirements:

== ISIS ==

(E = essential, D= Desirable)
 * (E) A *fully supported* upgrade path from ICAT 3.3 to 4.1
 * (E) Maintain a legacy icat3-exposed web service API to allow gradual migration. This is essential for established users to realistically migrate.
 * (E) Maintain the ability to create many datafiles in an existing dataset in one web service call - ideally some kind of ingestXml call
 * (E) Usage reports (how many people use ICAT, how many people downloaded dataset x, how many times has anyone asked for data >3 years old)
 * (E) TopCAT - add ability for data owners to grant permission on their datasets to others
 * (E) Upload of derived data through TopCAT
 * (D) A way of grouping parameter names - to solve the 86 variations of 'temperature' problem (temp, temp1, t1 sampletemp etc). Currently this makes searching nearly impossible
 * (D) TopCAT - expose information about the investigators
 * (D) TopCAT - download all metadata for an investigation or dataset
 * (D) Basic visualize  or view data in TopCAT, possibly using jpowder or similar

== Pandata ==

 * REST web service (PSI request at several meetings)

== SNS ==

Please meet the following requirements:


To provide better system performance and user experience, we wanted to offer live view and auto data reduction to SNS users in the future. SNS has two major requirements:

1. Provide a new API method to allow a quick metadata search without a user login. The metadata request seems to vary from instrument to instrument. For example our eqsans instrument scientist asked for the following metadata: start time, run title, run notes, total run time, total accelerator current, sample to detector distance, wave length band used for a given run number or a range of run numbers. They wanted these metadata to be available in mantid via icat without having to login into mantid/icat. Today, these metadata are obtained by calling a script that harvests pieces from different metadata files on the instrument analysis machine.

2. Another request is to enable cross references among the runs. How to best guess the background runs like empty run, transmission run, vanadium run etc that are needed for data reduction? Can this be done without a user login? 


== Others ==


== - the end - ==