#summary Setting Up ICAT3 Modules in NetBeans.
#labels Icat-Api

== Setting Up ICAT3 Modules in [http://www.netbeans.org NetBeans] ==

Author: Shirley Crompton

Date:   9 September, 2008

=== Introduction  ===

These are rough notes from my painful experience of setting up ICAT3 as netbeans projects.  

=== Prerequisites  ===
  # Make sure you are using [http://www.netbeans.org NetBean] 6.1 or later with [https://glassfish.dev.java.net/ Glassfish] V2Ur2  (Devigo did not leave any technical handover instructions that I know of and I wasted several days trying to set up the projects in [http://www.netbeans.org NetBeans] 6.0.  [http://www.netbeans.org NetBean] 6.0 does not support Sharable Libraries and your build files will be messed up if you use a lower version.)
  # NetBeans EJB plugin is installed.
  # Have the Devigo's binary installation zip file accessible from your desktop, you will need to copy some of the jar files.

=== Procedures ===
  # Check out the ICAT3_api branch from the SVN onto your desktop.
  # Open these projects in [http://www.netbeans.org NetBeans] *6.1* or later.
    * icat3-core
    * icat3-data
    * icat3-download
    * icat3-jaxb
    * icat3-user-default 
    * icat3-exposed (this is the main project)
  # Go through each projects to resolve the missing libraries and correct/update errors in the code flashed up NetBean.  Some Test packages contain missing methods and you may wish to remove them in the first instance to save time.
  # You will need to adjust the environment-specific properties in the project.properties to match your own settings.
  # Set up the required Database schemas - ICAT (main ICAT schema) and ICAT-user (for the session beans) (if required).
  # Add server resources (JDBC resources and connection pools) for the ejb/enterprise bean modules. (This may not be absolutely necessary as the deploy process may perform this).
  # Add these:
    * wstx-asl-3.9.2.jar to your {{{<JAVA_HOME>\lib\endorsed}}} folder.
    * ojdbc14.jar to your  {{{<GLASS_FISH_HOME>\domiains\<your domain>\lib\ext}}} folder.
    * log4j.properties to your  {{{<GLASS_FISH_HOME>\domiains\<your domain>\config}}} folder.
    * ICAT.wsdl to your  {{{<GLASS_FISH_HOME>\domiains\<your domain>\config}}} folder.
  # Clean and build the icat3-exposed project (this will also build the dependent projects).
  # Deploy icat3-exposed to your [https://glassfish.dev.java.net/ Glassfish] instance.  If you already have a database schema installed, ignore the SQL errors that complain about constraints.
  # Make sure that you have configured cog-kit on your desktop (see [CogkitConfig Configure Cogkit]).

You are now ready to test ICAT3 with your own webservice client.  (If you wish to use Dataportal, you may like to refer to [SetupDP5 Setting Up Dataportal as Exploded Enterprise Modules in Netbean].).