#summary Draft executive summary of the SSI review.

= Executive Summary =


Both the ICAT collaboration and the ICAT software are at a critical point in the ICAT life cycle.  To date, the mechanisms in place for the management of ICAT have met the needs of the partners in the collaboration.  However there is general agreement, and specific requests from stakeholders, that the mechanisms expand to support a larger community of users.  The driving force for change comes from the PanDataODI and the EuDAT projects which are evaluating ICAT as a metadata cataloguing solution for widespread use in Europe.

The principal source of data for this assessment was a set of fifteen interviews.  These interviews led to the identification of a set of observations, leading to a set of recommendations for action by the collaboration team in general, and the eScience ICAT team at STFC in particular.

The key factor for the future success of ICAT is that the collaboration provides assurance to the stakeholders that ICAT will continue to meet their needs.

There are some major positive observations about the current state of the collaboration.  One is that the core ICAT team is already well aware of many of the issues identified in the interviews; the team is asking the right questions on sustainability at the right time during the collaboration's evolution, and that the team accepts that changes in a number of areas are required.  In addition, the issues identified are generally those that one would expect from a project at ICAT’s level of maturity; the issues include the successful management of an increasing number of requirements and stakeholders, ensuring a higher level of involvement and promotion with a growing stakeholder community, and ensuring that the development processes, policies and infrastructure can meet the needs of the stakeholders.

There are several important observations.  Firstly, ICAT is an integral part of the operational processes of the stakeholders, who have a dependency on the software [CO1].  The collaborative processes and mechanisms in place have met the needs of the collaboration well [CO2].  However, it is clearly important that these mechanisms expand to ensure a sustainable future for the collaboration [CO3, CO4].  In addition, there is a need for the definition of more governance, process and policy, to manage the expected increase in use [CO5, GO2, GO3, GO5 and GO6].

The assessment provides a set of recommendations of which the following are the most important; define the governance of the collaboration [R1]; create a well-defined induction process for new collaborators [R11]; improve and streamline the requirements ingest process [R14]; expand, improve and promote the road-mapping activity [R15];  develop policies for deprecation, code contribution and software release [R20, R21, and R22]; allocate effort to assurance and promotion [R8, R10]; create a group of external product testers [R16]; engage actively in facility roll-out plans [R17]; create a capability to provide mentors for new collaborators [R6].

== - the end - ==
