#summary Meeting in Grenoble in March 2012
#labels meeting,workshop

= 4th ICAT Workshop - Grenoble - 20th March 2012 =

The 4th ICAT workshop will be held at the ILL, Grenoble on 20th March 2012 from 0900 - 1700.

== Attending ==

If you are interested in attending this meeting please contact tom.griffin@stfc.ac.uk

= Agenda =

The purpose is to discuss plans for the development and use of ICAT at facilities and by projects such as PaN-Data and CRISP.

We will formalise the agenda over the next few weeks.

Current Draft Agenda. All times are too specific to be realistic.

|| Start Time || Subject                                                                      || Time (mins)  || Speaker            ||
|| 09:00      || Welcome and introductions                                                    || 15           || Jean-François      ||
|| 09:15      || General Introduction to ICAT / TOPCAT (for new collaborators)                || 30           || Alistair/Kevin     ||
|| 09:45      || Organisation and structure of the ICAT project team                          || 10           || Alistair           ||
|| 09:55      || General presentation from the facilities (5-10mn each)  where they stand ?   || 5-10 each    || See below          ||
|| 09:55      || ILL                                                                          || 10           || Jean-François      ||
|| 10:05      || CLF                                                                          || 10           || Alistair           ||
|| 10:15      || DLS - including SDA integration                                              || 20           || Ghita              ||
|| 10:35      || ELETTRA                                                                      || 10           || George or Milan    ||
|| 10:45      || ISIS                                                                         || 10           || Tom                ||
|| 10:55      || Break                                                                        || 20           ||                    ||
|| 11:15      || Technical presentation of the functionalities and the roadmap; ICAT 4.1      || 60           || Alistair/Steve     ||
|| 12:15      || Lunch                                                                        || 75           ||                    ||
|| 13:30      || Presentation of the different WPs of the EU project dealing with ICAT        ||              ||                    ||
||            || What has to be done; what are the resources.                                 ||              ||                    ||
|| 13:30      || CRISP WP17                                                                   || 10           || Jean-François      ||
|| 13:40      || PANDATA WP3 - User Catalogue and AA Service                                  || 10           || Heinz-Joseph       ||
|| 13:50      || PANDATA WP4 - Data Catalogue Service                                         || 10           || Milan              ||
|| 14:00      || PANDATA WP5 - Virtual Laboratories                                           || 10           ||                    ||
|| 14:10      || PANDATA WP6 - Provenance                                                     || 10           || STFC - Brian?      ||
|| 14:20      || PANDATA WP6 - Preservation                                                   || 10           || Jean-François      ||
|| 14:30      || Break                                                                        || 15           ||                    ||
|| 14:45      || Discussion of the collaboration between the ICAT team and the WP teams       || 75           || All                ||
|| 16:00      || Wrap-up                                                                      || 15           || All                ||
|| 16:15      || Close                                                                        ||              ||                    ||
|| 16:30      || Technical clinic - optional; bring your technical problems                   || 60           || Harjinder/ Kevin   ||

This table has a list of people intending to attend:

|| Name                          || Organisation || Comments                                        ||
|| Alistair Mills                || STFC         || .                                               ||
|| Steve Fisher                  || RAL/STFC     || .                                               ||
|| Brian Matthews                || RAL/STFC     || .                                               ||
|| Antony Wilson                 || RAL/STFC     || .                                               ||
|| Harjinder Chahal              || RAL/STFC     || .                                               ||
|| Kevin Phipps                  || RAL/STFC     || .                                               ||
|| Tom Griffin                   || STFC/ISIS    || .                                               ||
|| Heinz J. Weyer                || PSI          || PaN-data ODI WP3 leader (user catalogue and AAA)||
|| Thorsten Kracht               || DESY         || PaN-data-ODI WP5 leader (Virtual labs )         ||
|| Shelly Ren                    || SNS (ORNL)   || .                                               ||
|| Ghita Kouadri Mostefaoui      || Diamond      || .                                               ||
|| George                        || ELETTRA      || .                                               ||
|| Milan                         || ELETTRA      || .                                               ||
|| Jean-François                 || ILL          || .                                               ||
|| Jacques                       || ESRF         || .                                               ||
||                               || ALBA         || .                                               ||
||                               || ?            || .                                               ||
||                               || ?            || .                                               ||
